Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, Justin, Ellen Williams to 10 Mountain Standard
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do you tell me
Jay: I'm still throwing up. I just wrote about 45 minutes. Cool. Well, I just ate so
Jay: Hopefully, keep it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you're going to need a dentist. After all this to all this vomiting.
Jay: To mosquito.
Serious
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, man. All right, let me get in here right up a note.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you, what's the what you got going on this week we able to do any work or what I mean, you're so miserable. How do you get anything done.
Jay: For the most part, I've been kind of been written. The other day I got up, I got up long enough to help my mom to a trainer.
Jay: Put some graphics on a trailer and then she had to go to love books. So we had like 15 railroad ties on the ritual. I did all those and then I mow the yard today.
Jay: But for the most part. Other than that, I'm sleeping. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel like it's it's definitely not mending it's not getting better. Doesn't seem like it's getting any better. So what happened after we had that group, we were doing some brainstorming with with the doc. Did you make a call to your specialist to see if you could know Jim, I
Jay: Did
Jay: They said, I'm, I'm on the call list but
Jay: I'm will call again on Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: To have everything you need for today like someplace. If you didn't need to throw up a little bit of ice. Do you want to get those things.
Jay: Oh, I got, I got some whitewater right here.
Jay: Oh, I'm sitting in the recliner just kind of taken back because
Jay: Mr me a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's your mom thinking all this business.
Jay: I don't know, she's tried everything. Try it all kind of the medications and we just can't figure it out. Well, the doctor say it's my liberal, but we're just not understanding one throwing up so much
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Suboxone or sub you ticks.
The boxes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, there is. Um, have you ever had subjects.
Though
Jay: Can I try it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, so
Gwenevere Abriel: There is a difference and
Gwenevere Abriel: That's you can talk to Dr. Element about it. I don't know if it's because this vomiting. Did it start when you started the Suboxone
Jay: It was around the same time, I can't pinpoint my mom. My mom thinks it's
Jay: I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, notice what my question was right. I'm wondering if it is because if it is this simple and it needs you can get your life back. Unlike
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go look at it together. We're going to go online, there is a significant difference between the two. Let's go look at it together. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because I don't want to miss speak. This is outside my lane. This way I can just say, I'm just regurgitating what is right online. Okay. So some of you, Tex.
Gwenevere Abriel: The
Gwenevere Abriel: Love.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was the difference. Okay, here we go. My look out of here. Let's just see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I want. So your mom has his thinking that it might have something to do with
Gwenevere Abriel: With about the onset. It happened about the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so Suboxone and somebody tech, both of which were approved by the FDA in 2002 our drugs developed for the treatment of opiate dependence. They say addiction. I don't like that word right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Prior to 2000 when Drug Addiction Treatment Act was passed the primary medication to treat opiate addiction was method. We know that. Let's just go down here to the difference. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we go. So both Suboxone sorry both sub you checks and Suboxone contain this is the active piece right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's when you hear me say, notice that I don't say when you lost take
Gwenevere Abriel: A sub I'll say, when was the last time you had buprenorphine. So a lot of times I'll say it very specifically, and I do that for a reason. It's because there are these, these two
Gwenevere Abriel: Substances so while both drugs were developed at around the same time so so via text was formulated first while it was found to be relatively effective in the treatment of opiate addiction, there was still a tendency to abuse the drug.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hold on. Yeah, exactly. That's why you guys are on some Suboxone because it has this Naltrexone in it the locks on rather
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's get to that in a second. Many users sought to inject the drug intravenously, in order to obtain the high they had become accustomed to with heroin.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Because y'all. You know what you do you abuse anything, get your hands on. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what you right that's kind of what an addict kind of mentality as well, if I can.
Gwenevere Abriel: Start it
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't I inject it. Well, if I can crush it. Why don't I inhale it. You know, it just goes, it just ops enough's enough to sort of cross the blood
Gwenevere Abriel: Brain Barrier as quickly as you can. So
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what they're talking about. They're talking about that y'all aren't going to use moderation, you're not going to do it as prescribed. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So many users sought to inject the drug intravenously, in order to obtain the high they had become accustomed to with heroin and prescription painkillers, they often succeeded in doing so, giving rise to the need to develop another drug to address this issue Suboxone
Gwenevere Abriel: Suboxone contains both buprenorphine and naloxone whereas some new text contains only buprenorphine.
Gwenevere Abriel: naloxone is an opioid antagonists. So here's what
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me give you a short, short version here of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are are obviously have more than 10 opiate receptors, but just for now, you have these guys right here. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why buprenorphine is called a partial agonist means that the that stuff. You just saw the Naltrexone sits on these receptors and holds it holds the space right there and
Gwenevere Abriel: See if I can do it. This is card.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to get an opiate effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's sitting on
Gwenevere Abriel: The receptors. Later on when you're completely done with us.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you want to taper off. You're on a tape or you're not even on a taper. At this point, but a lot of people are someday maybe you'll say I'm completely done with this nonsense. I want to be on this crap anymore. And then you might just be on the lock. Some
Gwenevere Abriel: it'll sit on those receptors, it will inhibit it will mitigate craving.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's what's cool about it. So a couple things happen. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't really override the the Suboxone the way you can problem. That's why I'm hesitant to be talking about Sunday attacks, and I certainly didn't mention it months ago why because it has a risk of over use
Gwenevere Abriel: Same way heroin does or painkillers. So it's scary scares me. I get scared that people will
Gwenevere Abriel: abuse it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so I get scared. Now, I'm not a doctor, I can't make that decision. But if I just look from just the the the mental health part of it. I just look at your behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: You come in here. You sound like you're ready to learn new things.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your doctors aren't really, you know, readily available and you may want to consider talking with him to rule it out, but it does put you in danger.
Jay: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it is a substance abuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't have been a lock so let's keep reading. Okay, so you can feel educated around this.
Gwenevere Abriel: So so naloxone is a complete agonist. Notice how I said Suboxone is a partial agonist. It blocks. Some of the opiate receptors.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but a nap and relax naloxone is an opiate antagonist, which means it blocks the effects of opioids at the receptor sites number my fingers. It was blocking three of them in the Suboxone you're taking this guy blocks this guy blocks all of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you really would not benefit from, you know, side tracking and doing some heroin. You wouldn't benefit from it. If you were on this. You can't benefit much, you can't override
Gwenevere Abriel: A partial agonist, which is what Suboxone is, you know, it's one of the reasons. One of the things that scares me about the substances. Y'all are on is if you really are hell bent on my concern is overdose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because if you're seeking euphoria, you're trying to over ride this stuff that's in it, you could
Gwenevere Abriel: You could die. And so I get scared I do get scared. And so I really want to hear each day. I'm like, well, how much you doing, what are you doing I'm paying attention to.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I know about you're sweating. I want to know if you're talking differently if you're drawing I want to understand what you're doing because it's it's a still, you're still in a high risk zone.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could over okay so Suboxone. So let me just see the locks on was combined with buprenorphine to deter abuses, the medication.
Gwenevere Abriel: If someone inject Suboxone, the person will immediately go into precipitated withdrawal. So it's going to knock off. It'll knock off the opiates off these receptors and you'll start going into a straw. It'll knock them off the receptors and you'll feel like crap.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which is better. I don't know. Let's see, in comparing subtext and Suboxone there's little evidence suggesting that either medication is more effective in treating opiate addiction. If both medications are used according to prescription under medical supervision.
Gwenevere Abriel: buprenorphine in each will work as it should mitigating opiate withdrawal symptoms and reducing cravings.
Gwenevere Abriel: The main difference between somebody texts and Suboxone is in regard to their
Gwenevere Abriel: abuse potential do the tooth to to the President of the locks on Suboxone maybe less likely to be abused.
Gwenevere Abriel: As a result, this may be the best choice for those suffering from severe addictions, or those who have been through treatment before and relapse Suboxone. Some of you text should be used as a part of a greater blah, blah, blah. So, this one doesn't go really into
Gwenevere Abriel: The side effects of just didn't have it in here. Let's type it in. Instead let's just go right into side effects.
Jay: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not worried about that one. I'm more worried about the one you're on.
Jay: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at the first look what it says nausea and vomiting, the first side effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whoa. Uh huh. So Suboxone treatment. This looks like it's the same site American addiction center.
Gwenevere Abriel: And not another credibility. This is just happens to be at first thing I saw says boxing treatment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can include a number of side effects. The most severe, of which are caused by Suboxone status as a partial opioid agonist. That is, you might actually have an allergic reaction to na locks sewn
Gwenevere Abriel: You might be having an allergic reaction to no locks them according to the drug manufacturer common side effects are nausea, headaches, sweating numb.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mouth, constipation, which we know you have painful tongue don't know what that is. Dizziness fainting problems with concentration
Gwenevere Abriel: irregular heartbeat insomnia blurry vision back pain, drowsiness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because Suboxone is a partial opioid agonist. It can cause respiratory depression. We already know about that. But this was the one. Look at that. And this was random I kid you not. I didn't know that this site would have that as
Gwenevere Abriel: So it made me think about that as I've been listening to you, suffering, how can I not bring this up.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Ya know, and I don't know if that's what it is. But if it turns out that you're just allergic to the naloxone and you can have the benefits of, you know, not going into withdrawal and we kept we like checked. How many pills you had, and we were drug testing you more frequently.
Gwenevere Abriel: To make sure you're not taking in any heroin kind of thing. So you don't die, you feel me
As
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, wouldn't that be cool to have to you know to like have your life back without throwing up all this time. That'd be pretty amazing.
Jay: Yeah, it would
Jay: Do you think it's a simple
Gwenevere Abriel: I've watched it be that simple.
Jay: So it's crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, wouldn't it be cool.
Jay: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so my hope it is purse might not be. Maybe it's this liver. Maybe it's this other thing i don't know i'm not a physician, but I've been watching for three years.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I just watch right watch and watch and watch and watch and so some little things I pick up on every once in a while, a pattern I see a little pattern here and there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so I'm just wondering if that's what's happening, you may want to schedule an appointment with Dr. Solomon ASAP.
Jay: How do I do that I have me you can
Gwenevere Abriel: You can talk and say, Hey, Dr. Oliver and you can come in there right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can say, Dr. Solomon, I want to talk to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: About this idea and you can bring me up. You can say whatever brought this up but probably be pissed off at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he, you know, you can say, Listen, I've, I've done all these other things. Can we see if it's this
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what to say. I don't know, this isn't my wheelhouse. I don't, I don't know what what will happen, but if
Jay: If, if, after this meeting when is his next group.
Gwenevere Abriel: He has one actually he has one at 130 today. What time is it, where y'all are
Jay: It's 226 right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see if he wants to meet with you right after this. I don't know if he has an appointment. You want me to see if he's free
Jay: Hey, I'd appreciate it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on, let me text him in this slack program. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me a second. You've got
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, started the conversation. Jay, would like to meet with you. Do you have a few minutes to meet with him after your group. It's just wrapping up now, so he could probably see this message. Let's just see what he says because that usually is when us therapists are yakking away.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, we're trying to be helpful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let's see what he said.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me ask Angelina, if he has. I don't know if he keeps his calendar. I just see
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Dr. Solomon.
Gwenevere Abriel: As
Gwenevere Abriel: An appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: After
Gwenevere Abriel: Group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, well I'll keep this screen open and really like bold right here in front of me and we'll see if he writes me back. It turns like this read when someone writes me back.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you do sound like you're interested. It's got your attention.
Gwenevere Abriel: That would be pretty cool. I hope it's that simple. Wouldn't it be great.
Jay: It would be nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: How have you been doing around
Gwenevere Abriel: Relationships like
Gwenevere Abriel: Use already starting one, are you kind of sticking to yourself you entertaining going back. How's mom. How you doing in those important relationships.
Jay: Yeah, I'm broke up with my girlfriend. I'm done with her.
Jay: Oh,
Jay: My mom's good
Jay: Working
Jay: Hopefully this lock down everybody else's off long don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: I have no idea. I don't. I keep my head in this little shell.
Gwenevere Abriel: poke my head out. I go shopping every weekend and I walk. I get my news from really the wrong places. I get it. I get him from you guys right terrible and I get. I get my news from
Gwenevere Abriel: Trevor Noah and
Gwenevere Abriel: My other guy. JOHN OLIVER, you know, terrible, I should I should not do that. But figure it's just as good as
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'll just do my political opinion myself for a moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's, there's more. Yeah. Okay, so hold on and he brought me back kind of rough I have multiple appointments see appointments immediately after this group can be connecting group on Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Jay: Could you maybe tell them what's going on, maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm doing it right now. I'm just gonna throw it out there. If he bites. Maybe he'll go for it. Let me just see.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I was thinking, What if
Gwenevere Abriel: Jay is allergic.
Gwenevere Abriel: To this is our first time taking Suboxone
Jay: Yes.
Jay: In this program, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: That sounds familiar, like this is like this. First thing, if you're like really getting a hold of this yeah I remember that. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Too.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm writing I i know i never bring this up.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can be that simple.
Gwenevere Abriel: He said he has never tried sub you Tex and never heard of it. I raised talk
Gwenevere Abriel: To
Gwenevere Abriel: Him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today,
Gwenevere Abriel: Is ok
Gwenevere Abriel: Ok he's busy with people. So I don't know how much drama is going over there. Let me just see it got some bad spelling going on here. Let me fix
Jay: It.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I was thinking, What if she was allergic to something I know I never bring this up. But what if it could be that simple. He said he has never tried Suboxone and never heard of it. I raised the topic to him today.
Gwenevere Abriel: On my meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, OK, OK, OK, fingers crossed. Here we go and put a little emoji. So don't get myself in trouble.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like those, like, sorry.
Jay: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's see. Let's see what happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, it could piss them off. It can be, you know, I don't know. Let's see.
Jay: He's pretty cool. Dr. Ellen is pretty cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I've only worked with him and with Dr are real.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see what he says. I hope it's okay okay so stuff with mom. Good. And how's your stress level.
Gwenevere Abriel: With fret and worry
Jay: Oh, well, now that I got one chord out of the way. I'm not worrying so much about that.
Okay.
Jay: I still got one coming up. But that's not until July. Yeah.
Jay: That's the one piece and all the time.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how, how, what's a typical day for you as far as how you approach your day. These have been rough because you haven't been feeling well.
Gwenevere Abriel: When, when there was more going on you're going out and you were spending time with your girlfriend. There was more interaction more opportunities to practice or not practice new skills, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't we focus a little bit on what it's like to interact with your mom since she's young. She's your primary person that you're talking to, right, or is it someone else.
Jay: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's mostly mom. Okay, so, and typical conversation with her. Does it typically go well, or just end up you guys piss each other off.
Jay: Because good
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay, fine, just leave that alone then pick up communication skills, another time.
Jay: We bumped my head. Sometimes we get along. For most people,
Jay: More than her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thoughts it so right. Um, let's talk about that. Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember we were doing that drama triangle thing like oh my gosh I recognize this. This is what my sister was talking about something like that. Is that right, did you say something like that, once
Jay: Yeah, my sister tried to explain it like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: How often do you talk to your sister.
Jay: Every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's struggling with any kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Substances
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: How did she gets through without it. When she do, how did she make it through.
Jay: It away from me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or here in the Bay Area.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what about
Gwenevere Abriel: Changing people, places and things. Have you noticed that you want to hang out with your home movies and your home. He wants you to do things that will get you high
Jay: Know, I got a buddy of mine that I hang with I was impressed with you. He just did a 13 years for murder.
Jay: Did he do, he
Gwenevere Abriel: Can open
Jay: Up with
Gwenevere Abriel: Self defense.
Jay: Even though.
Gwenevere Abriel: As he turned his life around. Is there anything to that that prison rehab nonsense.
Jay: I hang out with him because he was doing good right now he got off the dope. All it does to smoke weed. That's, that's all I do. So I'll go get him will go to the dispensary will get some weed and we'll smoke a couple joints and we'll do that about twice a day.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The there is an effect just just I think I've mentioned that one to you before that some people do have when they're smoking a lot of weed. They can have that vomiting. You saw that. Right. You did you roll that out at least cut back to see if that hadn't act.
Jay: Yeah, the other day.
Jay: I think it was before my group Monday on Monday, I think it was like Saturday or Sunday Saturday and Sunday. I couldn't smoke at all. I couldn't get out of bed.
Jay: I was stuck in bed for two days. I couldn't even get up to get water.
Jay: My mom brought me a couple cups of ice and I would let it melt and I would just sip on it. Go to sleep.
Jay: Good thing I had a good air conditioner because it was hot and there was no way I was not sleeping.
Jay: I just had no energy. I was
Jay: I felt like I was dying.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And so right that day, you said two days or one day you couldn't smoke.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the vomiting continued
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The one that it didn't do was the Suboxone
Jay: No, actually I didn't do notice the box and those two days, either.
Jay: Saturday and Sunday. I couldn't, I couldn't take none.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can take none.
Jay: couldn't take nothing I slept all day. That's all I did. I think I was maybe two hours, not of each me that I was awake.
Jay: I thought I was dying. I really thought I was
Jay: I came Monday, remember I was telling you guys I was doing that. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so used to hearing that you're doing bad day. It's almost like it's now the norm. Like, that's how much you're you're miserable and i and i and i i'm sorry for that. I don't want it to be like that. It's just there's something really wrong and
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you're following through. You call the office, you're, you know, you're on on call.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The other thing I mean you're not going to like this, but if you're doing heroin. Right. And then you do the Suboxone you're going to be throwing up. I'm just, I gotta say, at least I gotta say it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's gonna put you in full kick. So remember the definition. Like if you do take that because it's got the locks and it's going to wait. It's gonna walk off the, the, the, the opiate and then but so I just have to say it because at least, then I know I've said it.
Jay: I've given like three new ways to really
Gwenevere Abriel: Just say
You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you give me you know you don't present like you are. But, you know, any if I'm a decent clinician, I got at least bring it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I mean them who they would who would be the full for all dancing around clients up they're using heroin.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I didn't write it out for them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: So one of the things that you had wanted to do was attend more groups. I don't know that that happened or did you try some. Now, do you know why.
Jay: Oh, to the truth week I kind of had some things come up
Jay: Uh,
Jay: I got it written down.
Jay: Because we changed our group, and that day I had to go home. My mom on the 21st and my mom do t shirt, T shirts.
Jay: In the, in the
Jay: I'm still trying to get out and do stuff.
Jay: Today,
Gwenevere Abriel: I just thought I'd ask this to see if it was anything
Jay: Well, I went to check in on Wednesday. Well, I never made it at 130 was late and I just went through with it. Okay.
Jay: Because I think I had texting you told me at 730 they had another one. And I just forget it. Remember
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, I don't remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know what I can't remember everything
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's take a little look here, we'll do a little cognitive behavior. While we're waiting to hear from from from the doctor.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why I'm not doing some other things, is you're not feeling well. So I'm kind of just going to keep it kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of superficial event. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna do, I'm gonna do my thing you do your thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to show you this little list, which is super handy. It's coming. Totally only from the cognitive behavioral
Gwenevere Abriel: Framework. These are great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or if you starting to go into sort of an emotional spiral you're feeling like
Gwenevere Abriel: This is overwhelming. These can be really convenient.
Gwenevere Abriel: So 10 ways to untwist your thinking. Let's say you get yourself into a negative thought this is one way to get yourself out of it. First one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Write down your negative thought like
Gwenevere Abriel: For example, what, what's a negative thought that you've had over the last week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything, just put a heavy hitter. What would be a negative one.
Jay: Whenever I was running in the tractor. The
Jay: Oh, we're excavating the land in the backfield horses.
Jay: You know, even enough the dirt and stuff.
Jay: Yeah. He kept trying to tell me how to drag the dirt knew it was pissing me off because I know how to run the tractor.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so those. So let me tell you what you just described, you told me a story about how someone kept telling you how to do something Brown. Brown and you told me about the emotional response to that, but what you didn't tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't tell me what
Gwenevere Abriel: Your thoughts were, and you certainly didn't tell me what the underlying belief is so let's go there. So watch
Jay: My thought was is I know how to run a tractor.
Jay: And what was the other one, the thought process.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it's the belief. So hold on to this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know how to run a tractor. I know how to run a tractor. I know how to run a tractor and yet what's coming at you is how to run a tractor right how to run a truck. I know how to run a tractor. Here's how you run a tractor. So when that was going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's something that actually caused the emotion of frustration and anger and it was the core belief about yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And his telling you how to do something when you already know how to do it. There's a belief about the self and this is really hard to get to, for people. So just be patient with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's an underlying belief underneath all of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am what
Jay: See that one more time.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's an underlying belief.
Gwenevere Abriel: That actually was a big contributor to that feeling of anger and frustration.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Jay: It was just, I've been taking orders from Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're almost there. Wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait, wait, wait. I've been that we're almost there. I've been taking orders all day.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now go to. I already know how to do most of these things are all of them. I've been done taking these orders and he keeps coming at me now get to the I Am.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the belief about the self, while all of this is going on. It's building. It's in contradiction to who you are just hard to get to. I am
Jay: I'm morning control.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I am in control.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Jay: So here's I finally got off the tractor and told him to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you found a solution.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you found a solution. So we're going to take, I am in control. Now, here's my suspicion, there's, there's some whoops, there's something else going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me just see if that if it's this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: My suspicion is it's, it might be the belief that might need a little bit of twisting around is
Gwenevere Abriel: I have to be seen as in control. I, I clearly am and I have to be seen that way. See me I'm doing it the right way. I have to be in control.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know for sure. I gotta tease this out a little further.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: What would have happened if you stayed seated and he kept coming at you.
Jay: Want to go more frustrated
Gwenevere Abriel: Because when you really analyze it. All it is is someone making sound out of their vocal cords. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. All that's really all it is on the surface, but it goes through a filter of meaning. It's a meaning filter.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's where we find out what what Jay really thinks of himself right there. It's when this dude is coming at you, telling you how to do something ordering you to do it. Notice
Gwenevere Abriel: And you already know how to do it and some
Gwenevere Abriel: What meaning do you make out of that.
Jay: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's catch a thought. Just then, when I said it the way I said it what what ran through your head.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's coming at you with orders you already know how to do it. This guy doesn't see you as
Gwenevere Abriel: Capable
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think
Jay: I've been going through this for years. With this motherfucker.
I know
Gwenevere Abriel: This is, this is what we get to play. We get to go to a place you may not have gone to before. And this is this is the world and beliefs and and thoughts and this is my comfort zone. So I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can analyze his behavior. Some other day, but for now we got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just say this.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's been doing this for years. Now who is this person anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: Since your dad, quizzes,
Jay: my step dad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh man, you got years of this telling giving us you use the word orders he gives you orders.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sound. Let me hear it.
Jay: Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: When he tells you to do something. Let me hear how it sounds.
Jay: Like he's real conversations. I just didn't when you do something, you gotta do it like this. You can't do it like this, because this and this and this.
Jay: I'm like, Damn, I'm 32 years old, I think I have a duck a digital form and I have been leveled out land before I ran his tractor and loaded up
Jay: He didn't even know I used his tractor and I cured all this shit up. He didn't even know it.
Jay: I guess the other day was the first time that I drove nothing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Oops, I realized you're not even looking at me and probably stuck with this piece paper.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're going to play with this little, little bit. We won't get all the way through this exercise, but I want to, I want to go in here for just a moment. I got a real glimpse at what it's like to be sitting in stuck next to him.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Jay: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hold on, I want to, I want to see something
Gwenevere Abriel: If I said
Gwenevere Abriel: Imagine you spent the rest of your life believing that you were
Gwenevere Abriel: What is incapable
Gwenevere Abriel: Seen
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not seen
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's try that, when he's doing this, you gotta do it like this and it's like
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. He's not seeing you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't know you
Gwenevere Abriel: Were getting close.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's insulting to you because
Gwenevere Abriel: He's clueless.
Gwenevere Abriel: He doesn't really know you these many years it's condescending. He's up here, you're down here, no matter what, how much you've learned and experience. In fact,
Gwenevere Abriel: You've done some things he hadn't even done. You don't even know. Whatever, I don't know, making it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: But still he keeps this position of one up. He keeps it there, no matter how how you get he's up there condescending and talking down he speaks to you. He doesn't ask you do you already know how to do it. Um, do you feel you know whatever he just assumes no you don't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now when he's condescending to you and he is acting like he knows you, but he doesn't. What do you believe about yourself in that moment.
Jay: I know better. I just get frustrated and don't want to be around you.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're not there yet. The, I tell you. These are hard to get to and you have a lot of really great solutions you walked away. You know how to use skill. So what you do real quick. As you don't sit with sitting with a belief very long, so we can't get to it. You go to solution.
Jay: Dealing with him for a long time. I just don't need to get to me no more.
Gwenevere Abriel: Weight
Jay: Or go do my own thing.
Jay: Before I let him get under my skin, you know, to me, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: When he used to. Yeah. So let me go there. Then when he used to get under your skin when what he thought
Gwenevere Abriel: matter to you.
Jay: What he think matter.
Gwenevere Abriel: When he used to talk to you like that when it used to matter when you gave him any what he said any value at all when it used to affect you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember
Jay: I listen to him a little iPad.
Jay: But I'm just not. I'm not gonna be around him. Whenever he
Jay: Gets in those moods like he's better than everybody like he does no wrong he makes no mistakes. He's just one of those type of people he's annoying be around when he gets in those moods.
Jay: And I mean I could go out there, we could work for 10 hours him not say a word. And I'm great at the moment he opens his mouth and starts
Jay: You know, seeing everything from hindsight, instead of being right there.
Jay: 20
Gwenevere Abriel: It means something to you though. Jay, do you actually think that everyone on this planet would interpret his behavior. The same way yes or no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everyone 100%
momondo
Gwenevere Abriel: Well that's one person on this planet. I'm talking about everybody. You think everyone would interpret his behavior exactly the same way.
Jay: As I do
Jay: Uh huh. Yeah, if they if they grew if they're in my position know if they're just meeting him know.
Jay: They're just thinking
Jay: They're gonna think he's more because he is he, he knows what he's talking about.
Jay: But you don't get to see her and poke holes in
Jay: Them, you know I'm saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I, oh, I know what you're saying, I'm still trying to get to this core belief, but I'm seeing
Gwenevere Abriel: Some time slipping away.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's in
Gwenevere Abriel: I think a core belief is and I'll change because these are these are solutions.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I think I'll do with you with cognitive, behavioral, so I'll just start with the core belief.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll do a worksheet on that with you so you can kind of see what I'm talking about. But I was just about to pull that up. And then I saw Dr. Solomon responded
Gwenevere Abriel: And he said, that is a great thought, oh, he said, Good, he said, that is a really good thought period will consider for Monday, period. Thank you for that explanation.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I've already got the opener. So that means now when you bring it up, he already has kind of expecting it. I betcha, um, I would like the topic to be at the end. Um, I have some clinical reasons that I think it's a good idea. I kind of want to keep an eye on my other clients to
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a big change. This would be a big change. So let's do it right at the end or right before, like if you could get in there like five minutes before the session starts. If you can feel it and hopefully I usually get their medium minute after
Gwenevere Abriel: And I might end
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's smart. Okay, so that's a good sign. Right. He didn't. He didn't get defensive or anything funky. So that's a good thing. And maybe he'll have this whole weekend to think about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just see something
Gwenevere Abriel: So I just assumed you'd already done some of this, these things before, but I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Thinking, no.
Jay: Choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: The oh here we go let's do this show this one instead.
Gwenevere Abriel: These untwist you're thinking, so I'm just going to back up a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: To this, let me show you what I was doing. So you can kind of you'll get a sense what we've been doing today where she tried to get me to understand this is what I was up to.
Gwenevere Abriel: So our core beliefs, everyone looks at the world differently, two people can have the same experience yet have very different interpretations of what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: I could experience your step dad is very doting and helpful constantly reminding me of how to do something. Thank goodness, because I have a terrible memory. I'm so grateful. I could
Gwenevere Abriel: I would probably be like you and I probably get pissed off, and I would feel insulted, but I could
Gwenevere Abriel: core beliefs are the deeply held beliefs that influence how we interpret our experiences. Think of core beliefs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a pair of sunglasses, everyone has a different shade that causes them to see things differently. You've grown up with this man right so you have been shaped and conditioned a particular way.
Gwenevere Abriel: So they give you an example here. So let's go through this one you meet a new person and think about asking them to go out to coffee if your core belief up here is the green
Gwenevere Abriel: core belief. I'm not worthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your next thought would be, why would they ever go out with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then, of course, your behavior is going to be to not ask. You're going to go. You'll chicken out right
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's look at a different core belief. Let's look at the purple.
Gwenevere Abriel: You meet a new person and think about asking them to go out for coffee and you think you probably these these core beliefs. By the way, are kind of like the operating system of a computer, you're not actually con, you're not actually conscious of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're running the whole time. So anyway, you don't think about the operating system. You might think about an app, you might click on it, but you're not thinking about the operating system of a computer, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what our core beliefs are they're running everything but we're not paying any attention.
Gwenevere Abriel: So in the person that has this core belief of I'm not worthy. Basically, ultimately, I am not okay. I'm not good enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but if I'm sorry the this purple one is I am worthy. So they have a positive sense of self and they think a we might have fun if we go out together. And then the behavior is going to probably be the last.
Gwenevere Abriel: The last is personality coffee. Okay, so let's push down a little bit here. Can we scoot down. Where's my scooter. Nice. Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nose coach. Okay, well just stare at this thing and many we're now we're down in here. Many people have negative core beliefs that cause harmful consequences to begin challenging your negative core beliefs, you first need to identify what they are.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here are some common examples.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm unlovable.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not good enough. I'm a bad person. I'm stupid. I'm ugly. I'm abnormal I'm boring. I'm worthless. I'm undeserving
Gwenevere Abriel: Which ones out of all of these, for example, is like, ooh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now one. I don't. It's that was that could be me. I don't like it. But what if it is like which one stood out to you.
Jay: I'm a bad person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you know which one stood out to me that I was thinking, you might be thinking, Is this I'm deserving that stood out. I thought, I wonder if Jay thinks that way deep down
Jay: Maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Because if you're thinking. You're thinking, I'm a bad person at my core I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I might not be deserving of all of the riches, like the goodness of the wonderful things that this life has to offer. I'm undeserving
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder if those are running some of your decisions.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, maybe, but we found one. I'm a bad person. So let's just picture. So this is where I was trying to kind of nudge around earlier trying to see if we could find a core belief.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's, here's what I'm suspecting and we'll kind of end with this because we're at the top of the hour.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I, if I have a core belief. I'll take it on. Okay. Over here you know I like to role play. So if I at my core know
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a bad person.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if somebody tries to tell me something.
Gwenevere Abriel: I already think I'm bad
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to interpret what they're saying. As I'm bad, and it's intolerable. I'm already on maximum overload of I'm bad, and I can't take anymore. I can't hear it. And so I have to leave.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or get stoned.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: If it's not, I'm mad that just happens to be one of the things that was printed on this form. Do you know what your core belief about yourself is do you think it is. I'm down anything, it might be something else.
Jay: Does pretty good things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, good people have done bad things your friend did a bad thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is he a bad person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well he killed somebody
Gwenevere Abriel: So, go back, go back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that what you believe about yourself. I'm a bad person.
Jay: Yeah, I mean, I've done some good things.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, who's your friend. Are you a bad or person than your friend.
No, no.
Jay: I'm finally trying to get my life together instead of
Jay: Trying to think highly of myself. It's
Jay: Not easy
Gwenevere Abriel: So if it's true that you see yourself as a bad person and its underlying decisions along the way, you're probably going to be really intolerant. If you perceive. Remember that filter. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't mean that's what someone said, but if the filter is this operating system. It filters everything from the outside world.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the lens that you view everything through right everything
Gwenevere Abriel: If everything on the outside is a potential you're bad you're going to be defensive to it and it's going to be perceived as a threat to the self and you're going to want to leave. Get out of the tractor and go get stoned.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will need to be addressed. And I'm glad this came up because I never would have thought that this was something you had inside. I never would have guessed that if we hadn't done this activity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I never would have thought that because you don't look like that you kind of like you're open to this idea, you're like, Okay, I'll go to this. And hey, guys. And how about this and you present open in here right
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, how come you don't get defensive when I start talking about something you already know how to do though.
Jay: Really
Really
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I bet I will.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I wonder if all see defensiveness, and you I wonderful see anger, because it's bound to happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so, you know, you know, stuff and I don't know what you know, and so I might start saying something to be like
You know,
Jay: It's not like that.
Jay: That bad
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, this is how I wonder, so maybe let me check in on the I'm a bad person. How true is that from one to seven seven being absolutely true. How true is it bad.
Jay: Money more I'm doing good. No.
Jay: I'm striving to be a good person.
Gwenevere Abriel: So in between. I'm bad, and I'm almost a good person. What are you then.
Jay: I don't know. I don't know. I'm trying to rectify all the bad things that I do.
Jay: And that's all I'm trying to do to be a better person than I was when I was getting high. Yeah, stealing, shoot.
Gwenevere Abriel: At the core typically is I'm not enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's typically when I do all this investigation and we move around we poke around. And we investigate investigate look all around, most people get to, I'm not good enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the one that gets them. And so then when a step dad says something, it hits that buzzer. And we're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I already think I'm not good enough. And now I gotta hide you can't see I already know how to do this. It usually hits that button.
Gwenevere Abriel: kind of play with sit with that a little bit this week this weekend. If you are awake and want to do it. Just think about
Gwenevere Abriel: What sponsoring I think about it like a sponsoring belief might be filtering how you're interpreting the world when someone's talking to you. Hey, my mom's talking at me, she's like, did you remember to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, how do I interpret her reminder through a filter of what
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm good enough. I'm born level and fantastic person. I wonder if I was my filter. How would I interpret her reminding me
Gwenevere Abriel: Or my dad step dad says something I already know how to do and some wonder how I would filter that differently if it had a different filter. If I was interpreting the world differently. Something to think about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just saying.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well we got
Gwenevere Abriel: No seconds left.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you notice it's important for you here today. What do you notice about you.
Jay: I don't like working for my step then
Jay: Look good, other than being sick. I had a good week. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right, so let's schedule another appointment. And then, of course, we'll have this discussion on Monday. And I sure hope it's just that simple. Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: Wouldn't that be great.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, didn't he increase the dose. Was he you that he did that with
Jay: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it wasn't you, somebody else. I remember I was surprised. Okay, so you do pretty I am completely booked.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unless we put something in here that I can't see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grief
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you be amenable to being on my own call this just in case I get a cancellation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, after what time are you open to getting a text what after what time
Jay: Well, let's do around this time room three my time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but what about all day.
Jay: you text me on be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I'm getting out, meaning if I get a cancellation. Are you typically sleeping tell a particular time.
Typically
Jay: I'll make sure I'm up by nine o'clock every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll just say I put you right now. I've only got two people on my own call list, but I've got after nine I just put after nine, so I won't call you my my six and 7am no show
Gwenevere Abriel: I am ok
Gwenevere Abriel: OK. And I'll keep my eye out for other people, if they cancel. I'll reach out to you and get you in there.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's keep our fingers crossed that it's just that simple. Maybe somebody
Gwenevere Abriel: Will be man. That'd be nice. All right. I'll talk to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bye.